In this lecture we're really trying to give
you an introduction to parametric design.
But of course we cannot cover all the different
features and functionalities that are out there
for p5.js. There is a really
great documentation online
and the reference. Inside the reference you find
all the different functions that are available.
This is not only interesting if you're trying
to go beyond what we teach you in the seminar,
but this might also be useful if you
forget what kind of parameters you need,
to call a certain command. For example the "rect"
command which we're using to draw a rectangle, you
can see here. And for almost all of the commands,
you find good examples inside the reference,
so you can see how you can use the function,
but the most important bit comes down here:
the syntax. This shows you how you can call
this function. It shows you what parameters
go in this function and what types of parameters.
In this example here, you can see that the first
three parameters are mandatory, so you need to
provide these parameters. The parameters in these
brackets, those are not. These are optional. You
don't need to provide them. And below you also
find an explanation what these parameters are.
The most important bit being the one in the front.
This defines what kind of parameter this
is. In this case it's a number parameter.
And this is the X-coordinate of this rectangle,
so where should it be positioned on the screen.
In this reference you can really quickly
look up the different functions and how
you can call them and what parameters
are required or optional to call them.